## 1. What is a program?

In order to understand what is a process, it is important to define what a program is.

A Program is a set of instructions and operations destined to be executed by a computer. In itself, a program and all its files are saved on to the hard drive and does nothing.

When executing a program, either via a shell command or by clicking on its icon to launch it, or via automatic launch when starting the machine, the system will upload the program's instruction to the RAM and execute them one after the other.

It is a program in this particular state, that is currently being executed that we call a ***process**. 

>!!! NOTE !!! : A program exists on a hard drive while a process exists on the RAM.

The OS deals with all process and allocates to each one of them its own RAM (stack, heap, instruction pointer, etc...). This allows to make sure that a process connot easily access another process' memory or instructions. Each process is therefor a distinct entity.

## 2. Processes Hierarchy

To list all active processes on a Unix system, type the following command:
```shell
$ps -e
```

The output will look someting like this: 
```shell
PID TTY          TIME CMD
      1 ?        00:01:03 systemd
      2 ?        00:00:02 kthreadd
      3 ?        00:00:00 rcu_gp
      4 ?        00:00:00 rcu_par_gp
      5 ?        00:00:00 netns
      7 ?        00:00:00 kworker/0:0H-events_highpri
      9 ?        00:00:14 kworker/0:1H-events_highpri
     10 ?        00:00:00 mm_percpu_wq
     11 ?        00:00:00 rcu_tasks_rude_
     12 ?        00:00:00 rcu_tasks_trace
     13 ?        00:00:13 ksoftirqd/0
     14 ?        00:17:38 rcu_sched
     15 ?        00:00:04 migration/0
```

We can see that every process is assigned a ***PID*** (***P***rocess ***ID***entifier) which is a positive integer.

We can check the ***PID*** of any process with the following command:
```shell
$ pidof <name_of_process>
$ pidof top
$ pidof pidof
```

Adding to the ***PID***, every process have a ***PPID*** (***P***arent ***P***rocess ***ID***entifier) which is a reference to their parent process.

For instance, we can check the PID and the PPID of the shell of our terminal with the following command:
```shell
$ echo "PID = $$; PPID = $PPID"
```

>!!! Processes are organized hierarchically:
> -> ***Parent*** process generates ***Child*** process that can then generate other ***child*** processed, so on, so forth...

For instance, when we run a `ls` command, the shell creates a child process whith the task of executing the program `ls`.  If the shell was to execute the `ls` program directly without creating a child process, the shell process would be entirely replaced by the `ls` programm and we wouldn't be able to do anything anymore.

> !!! NOTE : When strating a Unix system, only one process is initiated. This process is called `init` , has the `PID 1` and is the ***direct or indirect ascendant*** of all processes that are run on the system.